Hi, Chris all. Hi, Kate Johnson. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you Kate. Chris,
please tell me a little bit about yourself. Well, I'm currently finishing my Master's
of Education Program at Lake Erie College and working on transitioning from a Northeastern
Ohio winner to being a member of the Jacksonville Area Community. Why the move?
Well, my wife's job is moving down south and I'm coming along with her. It's very
noble and admirable about you at the same time. How did you hear about the position
open with our company here at REI? Well, when I thought about the opportunity
of changing locations and moving from one physical location to another, I thought about
making a career move as well. And I was starting with my main interests and passions and I love
being outside. I love doing outdoor activities and I love working with people. And I thought
if I could use my experience as a teacher, helping people and my interest in the outdoors
together, that would be a good place to start a new career. And when I was looking online,
I found REI's website and that there were positions available in the Jacksonville area,
so I thought I would apply. Great. Well, you say you have an interest in outdoor
activities, so this would be a great company for you to work at that being said.
What else do you know about our company? Well, I know you've been around for a long time since
the late 1930s and what really caught my attention the most was the idea that it was started by
people who had a passion for the outdoors and found a way to involve others in their experience.
I like the idea too that your company is consistently ranked among the top 100 companies to
work for by Fortune Magazine. And I thought growing with a company that has that level of success
would be a good place to be. Why do you want this particular position here with within our customer
service department? Because I want to start in a position that allows me to learn everything about
the company from the very basic level of interacting with the customers all the way up throughout
the sales process, the marketing process, and the production of goods and services.
When I saw the opportunity for customer service, I thought it aligned very well with the skillset
that I have and also with some skills that I could bring to the company that might be unique.
Can you tell me a little bit more about the skills that you would transfer from your previous
line of work to our department here? Sure, an education. It's all about making the customer or
student feel comfortable and helping them grow. I feel that within a company like RAI, it's the
same philosophy getting a customer comfortable with the product and helping them grow as they advance
in whatever sport they happen to be participating in. Why do you think that our company should
hire you specifically among the staff pool of candidates that are interviewing for this position?
Sure, I think one skill set that I have involves my background education. Teachers are among
the highest-stressed professionals in the workplace and RAI offers a number of products that help
alleviate stress by getting people outdoors and teachers also have a lot of downtime in the
summers. My thinking is that once I learn the ropes and advanced it in the company, I'll be
able to market the services and products that RAI offers specifically to the teaching profession.
I have to ask this question. Given that you are making a career change here, especially with
finishing a master's degree in education, if a position becomes available in your current field
down here in the Jacksonville area, how do you approach being offered this job versus being offered
a position in your field and I'm asking that in the now and in the future? Sure, that's a great
question. I'm not pursuing further educational opportunities within that profession. I feel like
this customer service opportunity, the chance to work and to feel that I enjoy as much as teaching,
is a place that I could grow into, long-term. So what I get out of teaching is working with people
and helping people become a little bit better than they were when I first met them and that skill
translates very well into RAI's mission and so I don't anticipate leaving a successful career
for something I've already done. I feel like this is a natural confluence of my two interests.
Chris, what would you identify as your greatest professional strengths?
I think patience is probably my greatest strength. That translates across the careers
being able to listen to a student or customers difficulty and help them overcome that difficulty
with patience and compassion as my greatest strength. Would you consider any weaknesses that you
have to be detrimental to the job? I think there's a risk when it comes to compassion. I think
people can misinterpret compassion as being easy or willing to roll over when it's important to
understand that compassion is something that is earn and it's interactive and I feel like if I
establish clear boundaries with customer's client students they understand that I am understanding
I am patient I am kind yet I'm also going to hold the people I interact with to a high standard.
To date, what would you say is your greatest professional achievement?
Personally becoming a teacher, earning a master's degree, those have all been wonderful
experiences for me but the greatest achievement would have to be working with young people and
helping them get a little bit better at communicating with the world around them.
Chris, can you tell me about a challenge or a conflict that you faced in the workplace
and how you would deal with it? Sure. Within the education profession there are challenges every day.
You're dealing with hundreds of different personalities and interests and levels of enthusiasm
so being able to engage students with content in an enriching way is part of overcoming a
conflict or difficulty. I think building professional relationships is another way to deal with conflicts
understanding where people come from. Prior to teaching I was involved with a photography company,
photographing events like weddings and bar mitzvahs and very, very important events in
people's lives and a lot of times conflicts would arise so again just like in teaching
overcoming those conflicts with patients and listening to the client or customers needs is very
important. Now you are interviewing for a position that is not an esery level position and
there is the possibility that those in our company that we're overlooked for this position may
have some animosity regarding the new hire for this position. So how do you approach
this potential challenge here at the workplace? The important thing is to listen to the people
around me and understand that I am a newcomer and that they know more about the work environment
than I will coming in. I think because I have a friendly demeanor and I'm not confrontational
when meeting new people that in time will have a chance to earn each other's mutual
respect and understand that we both want the same thing. The company to grow and us to grow
within the company. Where do you see yourself in five years specifically
here within our company? Hopefully I'll be able to develop a market that allows me to interact
with people within the teaching profession and grow our brand using that market as a target client
base. It's great. Are you interviewing currently with any other companies and if so
what interests you about those particular companies as well? Since some new to the area I haven't
had the opportunity to interview with a wide variety of companies, I have looked at vast
pro shops and I'm currently scheduled to interview with them. They have a similar mission and
similar goals to RAI. It's just that their product line is more specifically tailored
than RAI's more diverse offerings. We here at RAI, you know, it is being in customer service.
There are aspects of your job that are going to be a little less active than I could expect
you being in a teaching position where I assume you're on your feet more one-on-one
base-to-face with individuals. Do you prefer a specific type of work environment? Do you thrive
in a variety of work environments and what does this look like? I thrive in a variety of
work environments. I wouldn't expect to be sitting in a cubicle interacting with customers
unless I'm handling a phone call and that's fine. That's part of the job. But what I would
expect is to be actively engaged with the customers who come into the store and helping show
them the products that might best suit their needs and introducing them to products that they
might not have considered before. So I would expect to be moving around and being consistently
engaged with a customer or trying to find ways to improve what we offer to our customers.
Can you describe it time for me ever that you may have disagreed on a decision that was made
for you and staff members at work and how did you deal with this? Sure. Within the field of
education there are new initiatives being rolled out all the time and sometimes those initiatives
get mandated. You have to teach this way this many times a week and when something like that
happens I think it's important to go back to what you know about your profession or your skill set
and you provide research that supports why you do what you do and I think when faced with a
difficulty again it's important to do what the boss says and it's important to also advocate
for what might be best for the customer or student. All right we're going to move on to some
cognitive behavioral questions and basically these questions are designed. They're not necessarily
about your past, your experience, they're sort of out of the box questions and so just do your
best at answering them as you go through this. So if you were an animal what would you be and why?
That's a tough question I think considering the traits of my dog if I had to be an animal
I would certainly want to be a domesticated dog they just have that ability to love unconditionally
their intensely loyal and they just provide so many benefits to people and that's something I'd
like to do in my life as a human too. Great. The next question how many tennis balls can you
fit into a limousine? Can this fall in the limousine? Well I guess to effectively answer that question
I would need some help. I would need to know what type of limousine because if we're talking about
a stretch SUV that's a much larger volume than a smaller limousine are we talking to door
four door? I also don't know what's in the limousine already other people in there or is it empty?
Once I had those questions answered I'd have to do some calculations about the size of a tennis
ball, how much area or how much volume it takes up, calculate the inside of the limousine and then
make sure the math works out. I could get that answer to you. I just can't do it off top of my head.
Great. Let me ask this final question. Do you have any questions for us?
Well I mentioned a couple of times about being interested in helping grow a market for REI.
I'm just curious as a new employee or someone starting out on the lower level how open is
upper management hearing the ideas of an employee? We do try to have monthly meetings where we
meet with a variety of employees around them. These aren't things that are necessarily scheduled
regularly. They're very semi-annual. They're very informal. We do like to hear our employees
opinions about our products especially and about marketing. One thing that we don't necessarily do
is the lower level positions that are dealing maybe with collections or the intake and
distribution of customer service calls. We don't necessarily talk to that group of employees very
often but I'd be very interested to hear your opinions on that. Should you be hired for the
position and maybe ways that we could do better as well by reaching a larger group of our employees
to benefit our company. Okay and then last question for me. What from your perspective is the best
part about working for REI? I think the work atmosphere with our company is very welcoming and
even in my position in somewhat upper management those that I work for that are above me. They're
very good to our employees and I think because of the treatment of our employees we retain
employment. It's very easy for us to get things done because people want to do their jobs.
I have worked myself in positions where I've worked underneath people who are more tyrannical
in nature and it's very difficult to want to do more and go above and beyond what you need to do
in those situations. So I believe that that's the number one benefit of working in the
our particular company is the atmosphere itself. Great. Thank you so much for your time. Okay.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
